he later that was great now we've
learned how to solve that problem when
we're hitting the ball in that remember
we've got to get a foot below to clear
the net okay now the other bigger
biggest problem we have in tennis is
we're hitting the ball long how do we
prevent that what I suggest when you're
in your ready position when you're
facing the net now your grip is pretty
good as it is your backhand grip and
notice see how the rocket face is closed
here a little bit alright that's what
you want in your ready position keep the
racket face close like that now as you
bring the racket back your backswing
what you do from this position here go
ahead turn to here is probably the most
important part of your swing if you keep
the racket face slightly closed like
that now if you drop it down step out a
little bit as you go down good now swing
forward see you're guaranteed vertical
here you're not going to be open but
remember now okay come back to your
ready position see you start out with it
in this position right okay now go ahead
turn keep it closed all right look at
your racket still slightly closed right
okay now you're guaranteed vertical that
contact you if you come down this is a
foot below to contact point and swing up
now if you're hitting long when you get
to this point here where's the palm of
your left hand facing right now sail
down okay so remember those two words
palm down if your palm is down that's
going to prevent the ball from sailing
long okay and also that back swing from
the ready position alright so let's work
on your backswing I want you to think of
a couple of things let's think about
keeping the face closed face closed and
palm down okay okay all right here we go
we're thinking face closed and palm down
okay so close up the face a little bit
good and palm down okay good face close
and palm down all right now make sure
you get a good foot below the ball
that's beautiful that was real good you
had the face closed
and you got a good foot below the ball
good shot all right you didn't get under
that one remember now we got to go back
to the first thing we were we were
working on I remember if the ball goes
in the net what do you need to do how
low do you have to get the racket a foot
below okay so remember you're going to
bend the knees like you're sitting down
on a chair your rear end goes down so
now we change the two things that we
were thinking about let's think about I
want you to think I want you to be
specific so let's think about a foot
below okay say that to yourself okay
ready a foot below okay good see you're
clearing the net right away very good
two in a row give me four three one more
all right four in a row now now we want
to prevent the ball from going long what
do we think about you remember the palm
down palm down is one and the face and
the face close is too right but which
happens first the face close to the palm
down face close okay so that's so you
always think of them in the sequence
that they're happening okay okay so
think face close and then think palm
down ready beautiful that's the idea I'm
sorry good get Linda that's it you got
it go up good shot okay off the back
foot that was good I like that because
you were leaning back and you realized
hey I better hit it high and hard right
and that's what you want to do when you
have to go back like that here we go
okay great face close palm down good
shot notice at this point the racket
face is closed and the palm of the left
hand is facing down remember this
prevents shots beyond the baseline
notice the shoulder touches the chin on
the finish great hitting Linda that's
fantastic good job so remember now you
can solve the two biggest problems in
tennis you're either hitting you the net
or you're hitting long all right I'm
gonna ask you now pressures on hitting
in the net what do you need to do if
you're heading into the net huh remember
how low do you have to get the racket
footstool oh that's it so you've got to
bend more remember think of sitting down
on that chair right okay now if you're
hitting wrong what do you got to do you
have to wreck it close palmdale right
face close palm down very good remember
those points and I'm telling you you're
gonna get more and more consistent you
won't miss a ball anymore okay good okay
very good